fix: adjusting container instrumentation infrastructure monitoring to highlight assignment of container logs (#16709)
newrelic/docs-website: src/content/docs/infrastructure/install-infrastructure-agent/linux-installation/enable-logs-monitored-containers.mdx

import infrastructureAddContainersLogPath from 'images/infrastructure_screenshot-crop_add-containers-log-path.webp'

import logsParsingUi from 'images/infrastructure_screenshot-full_logs-parsing-ui.webp'

Our [infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/infrastructure-monitoring/get-started/get-started-infrastructure-monitoring) can gather logs from your containers. When you enable logs from the infrastructure agent, the agent will automatically assign those logs to the hosts running Docker.

## Requirements [#requirements]

To collect logs from your containers, you need to have:

    * Infrastructure agent [1.8.32](/docs/release-notes/infrastructure-release-notes/infrastructure-agent-release-notes/new-relic-infrastructure-agent-1832) or higher running on Linux
    * CentOS version 6.0 or higher, if you're using CentOS
    * Docker with engine from [v1.12](https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/prior-releases/#1120-2016-07-28) or other [`containerd`-based container runtimes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes)

## Collect logs from your containers [#collect-logs]

> 1. Open the configuration file for the infrastructure agent and add this snippet:
> 
>     ```yml
>     - name: containers
>       file: /var/lib/docker/containers/*/*.log
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a file under `/etc/newrelic-infra/logging.d/docker-containers.yml` with the following contents:

```yml
logs:
    - name: docker_containers
      file: /var/lib/docker/containers/*/*.log
```
```

Reviewer 2: Added to the PR!

<img
    title="Add the containers path to your snippet"
    alt="A screenshot that shows where to add this snippet in context of your yaml file"
    src={infrastructureAddContainersLogPath}
/>

* You may find this file at this path: `/etc/newrelic-infra/logging.d/logging.yml`.

> * This section directs the agent to collect logs from your containers

Reviewer: We probably don't need to add this. Please note that the Log Forwarder integration picks any YAML file under `/etc/newrelic-infra/logging.d/*.yml` and translates them to Fluent Bit configuration. Contrarily to the public belief, they don't need to be placed under a single `/etc/newrelic-infra/logging.d/logging.yml` file. I believe this missconception was caused by Virtuoso, because that is the file it is using.

In this case, I think it makes sense to just use a separate file to include the Docker container logs config. It results in simpler installation instructions as well, IMHO, as we don't need to tell the user "edit the file in this particular way" (error prone, specially when editing YAML files), but just "create a file with these exact contents".

2. Add a tag section to your Docker configuration that passes in the default `{{.Name}}` attribute:

* Docker run command example

    ```shell
    docker run --log-opt tag="{{.Name}}" -d log-generator
    ```

* Docker Compose example in `docker-compose.yml`

    ```yml
    version: '3.9'
    x-default-logging: &logging
      driver: "json-file"
      options:
        max-size: "5m"
        max-file: "2"
        tag: "{{.Name}}"
    ```

<img
    title="Configuration file in context"
    alt="Screenshot that shows this snippet in context of a configuration file"
    src={infrastructureAddNamesLogs}
/>

> This adds a `attrs.tag` attribute to your logs, which looks like this snippet:

Reviewer: Is this `attrs.tag` added in the client side (that is, before sending the logs to New Relic)? Or is this metadata information sent by the Infra-Agent and later on used by the Logs Pipeline to enrich the logs?

    ```json
        {
        agentName:Infrastructure
        agentVersion:1.50.0
        **attrs.tag:cart-service**
        coreCount:1
        ...
        }
    ```

> 3. Once the `attrs.tag` appears in your host-level logs, you can enable container logs by going to <DoNotTranslate>**[one.newrelic.com](https://one.newrelic.com) > Infrastructure </DoNotTranslate>, then click <DoNotTranslate>**HERE**</DoNotTranslate>.

Reviewer: What is `**HERE**`? Did you enable some way to somehow correlate the logs to a container instead of to a host?

4. Create a log parsing rule by applying these configurations:

    * Name: container name
    * Field to parse: attrs.tag
    * Filter logs based on NRQL: attrs.tag is not null
    * Parsing rule: %{NOTSPACE:containerName}

Your modal should look like this:

    <img
        title="Log parsing rules"
        alt="Screenshot of log parsing in UI"
        src={logsParsingUi}
    />
    <figcaption>

    </figcaption>

> 5. Generate some data, wait a few minutes, and you'll see container logs assigned to your containers running on your host, rather than assigned to the host itself.

Reviewer: I'm confused here. The Infra-Agent log forwarder normally gets the `entity.guid` belonging to the _host_ running these containers, so the logs get associated to the host. Are you doing something differently in this case, when running Docker containers? My understanding is that by having `containerName` in the logs, you are somehow leveraging some Entity Synthesis rule to associate the log to a particular container. And I assume this is happening because the Infra-Agent actually sends `entity.guid.INFRA`, and not `entity.guid`. So by the time entity synthesis runs, `entity.guid` is still not populated.

I'm afraid that this solution is making some assumptions in the order in which the backend will perform the actions (that is, first it will execute parsing, then entity synthesis, and later on entity.guid consolidation), so I'd probably advise against this. I'd not like to have this coupling in the pipeline, as it may block us from being able to evolve it and modify the step order if we ever need to.

PS: have you verified that if logs get associated to the container they don't get associated to the host _as well_?

---
title: Enable logs for instrumented containers
tags:
  - Infrastructure
  - Install the infrastructure agent
  - Linux installation
metaDescription: New Relic's infrastructure monitoring agent automatically instruments container runtimes to collect container metrics and metadata.
freshnessValidatedDate: never
---

import infrastructureAddNamesLogs from 'images/infrastructure_screenshot-crop_add-names-logs.webp'

import infrastructureAddContainersLogPath from 'images/infrastructure_screenshot-crop_add-containers-log-path.webp'

import logsParsingUi from 'images/infrastructure_screenshot-full_logs-parsing-ui.webp'

> Our [infrastructure agent](/docs/infrastructure/infrastructure-monitoring/get-started/get-started-infrastructure-monitoring) can gather logs from your containers. When you enable logs from the infrastructure agent, the agent will automatically assign those logs to the hosts running Docker Compose.

Reviewer 3: The Docker Compose mention is not 100% accurate. The containers do not need to be running as part of a Docker Compose setup, they could have been ran  'manually' and the infrastructure-agent would be able to pick the logs up all the same.

Author: I just tested with a plain Docker container running manually using 'docker run ...' and the same applies. I need to run `sudo docker run --log-opt tag="{{.Name}}" -d log-generator` in order to get that tag added as attribute.

I will update the docs page accordingly.

Reviewer 3: Hi @harrykimpel , sorry I didn't notice this was specific to Docker Compose. Thanks for clarifying!

Author: > Hi @harrykimpel , sorry I didn't notice this was specific to Docker Compose. Thanks for clarifying!

@DavSanchez it was actually a great comment since I was not aware that the same concept also works for manually running Docker containers.
